% Options for packages loaded elsewhere
\PassOptionsToPackage{unicode}{hyperref}
\PassOptionsToPackage{hyphens}{url}
%
\documentclass[
]{article}
\usepackage{amsmath,amssymb}
\usepackage{iftex}
\ifPDFTeX
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
  \usepackage{textcomp} % provide euro and other symbols
\else % if luatex or xetex
  \usepackage{unicode-math} % this also loads fontspec
  \defaultfontfeatures{Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \defaultfontfeatures[\rmfamily]{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=1}
\fi
\usepackage{lmodern}
\ifPDFTeX\else
  % xetex/luatex font selection
\fi
% Use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{% use microtype if available
  \usepackage[]{microtype}
  \UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\makeatletter
\@ifundefined{KOMAClassName}{% if non-KOMA class
  \IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
    \usepackage{parskip}
  }{% else
    \setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
    \setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}}
}{% if KOMA class
  \KOMAoptions{parskip=half}}
\makeatother
\usepackage{xcolor}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{-\maxdimen} % remove section numbering
\ifLuaTeX
  \usepackage{selnolig}  % disable illegal ligatures
\fi
\usepackage[]{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}
\IfFileExists{bookmark.sty}{\usepackage{bookmark}}{\usepackage{hyperref}}
\IfFileExists{xurl.sty}{\usepackage{xurl}}{} % add URL line breaks if available
\urlstyle{same}
\hypersetup{
  hidelinks,
  pdfcreator={LaTeX via pandoc}}

\author{}
\date{}

\begin{document}

Results included in this manuscript come from preprocessing performed
using \emph{fMRIPrep} 23.1.3 (\citet{fmriprep1}; \citet{fmriprep2};
RRID:SCR\_016216), which is based on \emph{Nipype} 1.8.6
(\citet{nipype1}; \citet{nipype2}; RRID:SCR\_002502).

\begin{description}
\item[Anatomical data preprocessing]
A total of 1 T1-weighted (T1w) images were found within the input BIDS
dataset.The T1-weighted (T1w) image was corrected for intensity
non-uniformity (INU) with \texttt{N4BiasFieldCorrection} \citep{n4},
distributed with ANTs (version unknown) \citep[RRID:SCR\_004757]{ants},
and used as T1w-reference throughout the workflow. The T1w-reference was
then skull-stripped with a \emph{Nipype} implementation of the
\texttt{antsBrainExtraction.sh} workflow (from ANTs), using OASIS30ANTs
as target template. Brain tissue segmentation of cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF), white-matter (WM) and gray-matter (GM) was performed on the
brain-extracted T1w using \texttt{fast} \citep[FSL (version unknown),
RRID:SCR\_002823,][]{fsl_fast}. Brain surfaces were reconstructed using
\texttt{recon-all} \citep[FreeSurfer 7.3.2,
RRID:SCR\_001847,][]{fs_reconall}, and the brain mask estimated
previously was refined with a custom variation of the method to
reconcile ANTs-derived and FreeSurfer-derived segmentations of the
cortical gray-matter of Mindboggle
\citep[RRID:SCR\_002438,][]{mindboggle}. Volume-based spatial
normalization to one standard space (MNI152NLin2009cAsym) was performed
through nonlinear registration with \texttt{antsRegistration} (ANTs
(version unknown)), using brain-extracted versions of both T1w reference
and the T1w template. The following template was were selected for
spatial normalization and accessed with \emph{TemplateFlow}
\citep[23.0.0,][]{templateflow}: \emph{ICBM 152 Nonlinear Asymmetrical
template version 2009c} {[}\citet{mni152nlin2009casym},
RRID:SCR\_008796; TemplateFlow ID: MNI152NLin2009cAsym{]}.
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 10 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated using a custom
methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}. Head-motion parameters with respect to
the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six corresponding
rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before any
spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to 1.09s (0.5 of
slice acquisition range 0s-2.19s) using \texttt{3dTshift} from AFNI
\citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD time-series (including
slice-timing correction when applied) were resampled onto their
original, native space by applying the transforms to correct for
head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be referred to as
\emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just \emph{preprocessed
BOLD}. The BOLD reference was then co-registered to the T1w reference
using \texttt{bbregister} (FreeSurfer) which implements boundary-based
registration \citep{bbr}. Co-registration was configured with six
degrees of freedom. Several confounding time-series were calculated
based on the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD),
DVARS and three region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two
formulations following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by dilating a GM mask extracted from the
FreeSurfer's \emph{aseg} segmentation, and it ensures components are not
extracted from voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally,
these masks are resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding
at 0.99 (as in the original implementation). Components are also
calculated separately within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor
decomposition, the \emph{k} components with the largest singular values
are retained, such that the retained components' time series are
sufficient to explain 50 percent of variance across the nuisance mask
(CSF, WM, combined, or temporal). The remaining components are dropped
from consideration. The head-motion estimates calculated in the
correction step were also placed within the corresponding confounds
file. The confound time series derived from head motion estimates and
global signals were expanded with the inclusion of temporal derivatives
and quadratic terms for each \citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}.
Frames that exceeded a threshold of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS
were annotated as motion outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are
calculated by means of principal components analysis of the signal found
within a thin band (\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the
brain, as proposed by \citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD
time-series were resampled into standard space, generating a
\emph{preprocessed BOLD run in MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a
reference volume and its skull-stripped version were generated using a
custom methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}. The BOLD time-series were
resampled onto the following surfaces (FreeSurfer reconstruction
nomenclature): \emph{fsaverage6}. All resamplings can be performed with
\emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the pertinent
transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices, susceptibility
distortion correction when available, and co-registrations to anatomical
and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric) resamplings were performed
using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs), configured with Lanczos
interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects of other kernels
\citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were performed using
\texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\item[Functional data preprocessing]
For each of the 10 BOLD runs found per subject (across all tasks and
sessions), the following preprocessing was performed. First, a reference
volume and its skull-stripped version were generated using a custom
methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}. Head-motion parameters with respect to
the BOLD reference (transformation matrices, and six corresponding
rotation and translation parameters) are estimated before any
spatiotemporal filtering using \texttt{mcflirt} \citep[FSL
,][]{mcflirt}. BOLD runs were slice-time corrected to 0.708s (0.5 of
slice acquisition range 0s-1.42s) using \texttt{3dTshift} from AFNI
\citep[RRID:SCR\_005927]{afni}. The BOLD time-series (including
slice-timing correction when applied) were resampled onto their
original, native space by applying the transforms to correct for
head-motion. These resampled BOLD time-series will be referred to as
\emph{preprocessed BOLD in original space}, or just \emph{preprocessed
BOLD}. The BOLD reference was then co-registered to the T1w reference
using \texttt{bbregister} (FreeSurfer) which implements boundary-based
registration \citep{bbr}. Co-registration was configured with six
degrees of freedom. Several confounding time-series were calculated
based on the \emph{preprocessed BOLD}: framewise displacement (FD),
DVARS and three region-wise global signals. FD was computed using two
formulations following Power (absolute sum of relative motions,
\citet{power_fd_dvars}) and Jenkinson (relative root mean square
displacement between affines, \citet{mcflirt}). FD and DVARS are
calculated for each functional run, both using their implementations in
\emph{Nipype} \citep[following the definitions by][]{power_fd_dvars}.
The three global signals are extracted within the CSF, the WM, and the
whole-brain masks. Additionally, a set of physiological regressors were
extracted to allow for component-based noise correction
\citep[\emph{CompCor},][]{compcor}. Principal components are estimated
after high-pass filtering the \emph{preprocessed BOLD} time-series
(using a discrete cosine filter with 128s cut-off) for the two
\emph{CompCor} variants: temporal (tCompCor) and anatomical (aCompCor).
tCompCor components are then calculated from the top 2\% variable voxels
within the brain mask. For aCompCor, three probabilistic masks (CSF, WM
and combined CSF+WM) are generated in anatomical space. The
implementation differs from that of Behzadi et al.~in that instead of
eroding the masks by 2 pixels on BOLD space, a mask of pixels that
likely contain a volume fraction of GM is subtracted from the aCompCor
masks. This mask is obtained by dilating a GM mask extracted from the
FreeSurfer's \emph{aseg} segmentation, and it ensures components are not
extracted from voxels containing a minimal fraction of GM. Finally,
these masks are resampled into BOLD space and binarized by thresholding
at 0.99 (as in the original implementation). Components are also
calculated separately within the WM and CSF masks. For each CompCor
decomposition, the \emph{k} components with the largest singular values
are retained, such that the retained components' time series are
sufficient to explain 50 percent of variance across the nuisance mask
(CSF, WM, combined, or temporal). The remaining components are dropped
from consideration. The head-motion estimates calculated in the
correction step were also placed within the corresponding confounds
file. The confound time series derived from head motion estimates and
global signals were expanded with the inclusion of temporal derivatives
and quadratic terms for each \citep{confounds_satterthwaite_2013}.
Frames that exceeded a threshold of 0.5 mm FD or 1.5 standardized DVARS
were annotated as motion outliers. Additional nuisance timeseries are
calculated by means of principal components analysis of the signal found
within a thin band (\emph{crown}) of voxels around the edge of the
brain, as proposed by \citep{patriat_improved_2017}. The BOLD
time-series were resampled into standard space, generating a
\emph{preprocessed BOLD run in MNI152NLin2009cAsym space}. First, a
reference volume and its skull-stripped version were generated using a
custom methodology of \emph{fMRIPrep}. The BOLD time-series were
resampled onto the following surfaces (FreeSurfer reconstruction
nomenclature): \emph{fsaverage6}. All resamplings can be performed with
\emph{a single interpolation step} by composing all the pertinent
transformations (i.e.~head-motion transform matrices, susceptibility
distortion correction when available, and co-registrations to anatomical
and output spaces). Gridded (volumetric) resamplings were performed
using \texttt{antsApplyTransforms} (ANTs), configured with Lanczos
interpolation to minimize the smoothing effects of other kernels
\citep{lanczos}. Non-gridded (surface) resamplings were performed using
\texttt{mri\_vol2surf} (FreeSurfer).
\end{description}

Many internal operations of \emph{fMRIPrep} use \emph{Nilearn} 0.10.1
\citep[RRID:SCR\_001362]{nilearn}, mostly within the functional
processing workflow. For more details of the pipeline, see
\href{https://fmriprep.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows.html}{the
section corresponding to workflows in \emph{fMRIPrep}'s documentation}.

\hypertarget{copyright-waiver}{%
\subsubsection{Copyright Waiver}\label{copyright-waiver}}

The above boilerplate text was automatically generated by fMRIPrep with
the express intention that users should copy and paste this text into
their manuscripts \emph{unchanged}. It is released under the
\href{https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/}{CC0} license.

\hypertarget{references}{%
\subsubsection{References}\label{references}}

  \bibliography{/project/data/bids/derivatives/logs/CITATION.bib}

\end{document}
